README.md, before:

# apm2-sensors

Replacement firmware for an inexpensive APM2 board.  This firmware
converts the APM2 into a standalone sensors module and adds a full
suite of inertial and position sensors to any host computer or
application.  This firmware maintains APM2 support for reading RC
receiver values in, and driving output servos so for some applications
it could serve as a robot controller.


## v2.60 release notes -

* Fixed a mistake I only discovered now.  The wrong gyro/accel scaling
  was being used in the external communication protocol.  This
  resulted in a loss of available resolution by a factor of 4 for the
  gyros and factor of 2 for the accels.  The results have and will
  always be correct.  The fix means that now they won't artificially
  lose available resolution.  Note: this change requires a
  corresponding change at the aura-core driver level due to changing
  the packet encoding/decoding semantics with a different scale
  factor.


## v2.50 release notes - May 31, 2016

* Add magnetometer (raw) readings to IMU packet.
* Validate (with one small fix) flaperon mixing.
* If no gps detected within 20 seconds of main loop start, give up on
  the gps.  The gps polling/init imposes a timing hit periodically
  that can lead to hesitations and stuttering if no gps is connected,
  so just give up and assume no (ublox) gps is connected if no
  messages are detected within some reasonable amount of time.  This
  enables the host system to run well without an apm2-connected gps if
  it has a separate gps source.


## v2.40 release notes - February 13, 2016

* SBUS (in) support via UART2 (and an inverter cable.)
* Fixed a long standing bug where the airdata system didn't properly
  output climb rate.


## v2.30 release notes - December 13, 2015

Tighter main loop timing, synced with IMU samples.  (Removes a free-running
loop which leads to timing jitter and indeterminant latencies.)

* Reduced code size by 10%.

* Quite a few changes to remove prog_char from the libraries and
  remove FastSerial in favor of HardwareSerial.

* Support for compiling with newer version of the arduino IDE.

* Make PWM center and range match Futaba 'standard'.

* Add commands to setup SAS mode and adjust gains from host computer.

* Updated several packet formats and ID numbers.

* Report bytes transfer rate to host in the config/status message.

* Better support for saving configuration parameters in the EEPROM.


## v2.20 release notes - April 21, 2015

Add a simple 3-axis stability augmentation system.  Essentially it is:

```
  aileron_cmd += roll_gyro * gain
  elevator_cmd += elevator_gyro * gain
  rudder_cmd += yaw_gyro * gain
```

Each axis can be enabled/disabled independently and each has it's own
unique gain value.

The stability augmentation is performed by manipulating the normalized
input 'commands' and thus will work with any downstream mixing modes
that may be active for any particular airframe.

The SAS will also work identically in manual or autopilot mode because it 
is downstream of the flight commands (reciever or autopilot), but upstream
of the actuator mixing.

Add support for reading/writing the setup/configuration/gain values to
eeprom and loading them automatically at power up.  This eliminates
the need to send the configuration values to the device every boot.
Presumably this would enable the device to survive an inflight reboot
without losing it's config, or even run 'headless' without a host
computer once it has been setup (i.e. as in a smart RC receiver mode.)


## v2.10 release notes - February 16, 2015

The major functionality change in this release is a move towards doing
all mixing modes onboard the APM2 rather than on the RC transmitter
(and attempting to match in the upstream autopilot code.)  This
simplifies and standardizes the mixing mode operation (elevons,
flaperons, vtail, etc.) so that actuator behavior in response to
control commands is identical in autonomous flight and manual flight.

Internally, flight commands (either from the RC transmitter or the
autopilot) are normalized to a range of [-1.0, 1.0] for symmetrical
inputs and [0.0, 1.0] for other inputs (like throttle, flaps)

The mixing operations are done using floating point math in normalized
space.  Then the final result is converted back to PWM pulses and sent
to the actuators.

The convention used (at the APM2 input side) is:
* Ch1: aileron
* Ch2: elevator
* Ch3: throttle
* Ch4: rudder
* Ch5: gear
* Ch6: flaps
* Ch7: Aux1
* Ch8: Manual/Auto selection switch.

Elevon mixing drives output channels 1 & 2.

Flaperon mixing drives output channels 1 & 6.  (Each aileron servo is
plugged into it's own actuator output channel.)

Vtail mixing drives output channels 2 & 4.

This set of mixing changes also incorporate extensions to the two-way
communication protocol between the host and the APM2.  There is a new
message type to enable/disable specific mixing modes and set the
gains.  These configuration commands can be sent at anytime during the
flight if the specific use case warrents such a thing.

In addition, all successful configuration commands result in an ACK
packet being sent to the host.  This ACK packet has been extended to
two bytes so mixing mode configuration commands can respond with the
specific mode ACK that was received.  The host can know which specific
mix mode command was received, not just that "a" mixing mode config
command was received.

There was some small nuance changes to the main loop processing order.
Hopefully the servo outputs will be written a small fraction sooner.
Probably not enough to make any noticable difference, but the code is
now setup to minimize latency as much as possible.

All code is licensed under the GPLv3 except where otherwise noticed in a 
source file header.

Commit message:

Add micros() time stamp to IMU packet.  This can be used by the host to generate a more stable IMU packet timestamp (versus using current local time which can vary substantially on linux.)
Update the imu packet generation code to be a little more flexible/advanced
and follow the gps packet example.

README.md, after:

# apm2-sensors

Replacement firmware for an inexpensive APM2 board.  This firmware
converts the APM2 into a standalone sensors module and adds a full
suite of inertial and position sensors to any host computer or
application.  This firmware maintains APM2 support for reading RC
receiver values in, and driving output servos so for some applications
it could serve as a robot controller.


## v2.60 release notes -

* (v2.53) Add apm2 micros() timestamp to IMU output.  The apm2 runs at
  a really consistent rate and this can be used to create a consistent
  imu packet timestamp and filter dt on the host side. (Changes IMU
  packet definition, so bumped up intermediate firmware rev number.)

* (v2.52) Fixed a mistake I only discovered now.  The wrong gyro/accel
  scaling was being used in the external communication protocol.  This
  resulted in a loss of available resolution by a factor of 4 for the
  gyros and factor of 2 for the accels.  The results have and will
  always be correct.  The fix means that now they won't artificially
  lose available resolution.  Note: this change requires a
  corresponding change at the aura-core driver level due to changing
  the packet encoding/decoding semantics with a different scale
  factor.


## v2.50 release notes - May 31, 2016

* Add magnetometer (raw) readings to IMU packet.
* Validate (with one small fix) flaperon mixing.
* If no gps detected within 20 seconds of main loop start, give up on
  the gps.  The gps polling/init imposes a timing hit periodically
  that can lead to hesitations and stuttering if no gps is connected,
  so just give up and assume no (ublox) gps is connected if no
  messages are detected within some reasonable amount of time.  This
  enables the host system to run well without an apm2-connected gps if
  it has a separate gps source.


## v2.40 release notes - February 13, 2016

* SBUS (in) support via UART2 (and an inverter cable.)
* Fixed a long standing bug where the airdata system didn't properly
  output climb rate.


## v2.30 release notes - December 13, 2015

Tighter main loop timing, synced with IMU samples.  (Removes a free-running
loop which leads to timing jitter and indeterminant latencies.)

* Reduced code size by 10%.

* Quite a few changes to remove prog_char from the libraries and
  remove FastSerial in favor of HardwareSerial.

* Support for compiling with newer version of the arduino IDE.

* Make PWM center and range match Futaba 'standard'.

* Add commands to setup SAS mode and adjust gains from host computer.

* Updated several packet formats and ID numbers.

* Report bytes transfer rate to host in the config/status message.

* Better support for saving configuration parameters in the EEPROM.


## v2.20 release notes - April 21, 2015

Add a simple 3-axis stability augmentation system.  Essentially it is:

```
  aileron_cmd += roll_gyro * gain
  elevator_cmd += elevator_gyro * gain
  rudder_cmd += yaw_gyro * gain
```

Each axis can be enabled/disabled independently and each has it's own
unique gain value.

The stability augmentation is performed by manipulating the normalized
input 'commands' and thus will work with any downstream mixing modes
that may be active for any particular airframe.

The SAS will also work identically in manual or autopilot mode because it 
is downstream of the flight commands (reciever or autopilot), but upstream
of the actuator mixing.

Add support for reading/writing the setup/configuration/gain values to
eeprom and loading them automatically at power up.  This eliminates
the need to send the configuration values to the device every boot.
Presumably this would enable the device to survive an inflight reboot
without losing it's config, or even run 'headless' without a host
computer once it has been setup (i.e. as in a smart RC receiver mode.)


## v2.10 release notes - February 16, 2015

The major functionality change in this release is a move towards doing
all mixing modes onboard the APM2 rather than on the RC transmitter
(and attempting to match in the upstream autopilot code.)  This
simplifies and standardizes the mixing mode operation (elevons,
flaperons, vtail, etc.) so that actuator behavior in response to
control commands is identical in autonomous flight and manual flight.

Internally, flight commands (either from the RC transmitter or the
autopilot) are normalized to a range of [-1.0, 1.0] for symmetrical
inputs and [0.0, 1.0] for other inputs (like throttle, flaps)

The mixing operations are done using floating point math in normalized
space.  Then the final result is converted back to PWM pulses and sent
to the actuators.

The convention used (at the APM2 input side) is:
* Ch1: aileron
* Ch2: elevator
* Ch3: throttle
* Ch4: rudder
* Ch5: gear
* Ch6: flaps
* Ch7: Aux1
* Ch8: Manual/Auto selection switch.

Elevon mixing drives output channels 1 & 2.

Flaperon mixing drives output channels 1 & 6.  (Each aileron servo is
plugged into it's own actuator output channel.)

Vtail mixing drives output channels 2 & 4.

This set of mixing changes also incorporate extensions to the two-way
communication protocol between the host and the APM2.  There is a new
message type to enable/disable specific mixing modes and set the
gains.  These configuration commands can be sent at anytime during the
flight if the specific use case warrents such a thing.

In addition, all successful configuration commands result in an ACK
packet being sent to the host.  This ACK packet has been extended to
two bytes so mixing mode configuration commands can respond with the
specific mode ACK that was received.  The host can know which specific
mix mode command was received, not just that "a" mixing mode config
command was received.

There was some small nuance changes to the main loop processing order.
Hopefully the servo outputs will be written a small fraction sooner.
Probably not enough to make any noticable difference, but the code is
now setup to minimize latency as much as possible.

All code is licensed under the GPLv3 except where otherwise noticed in a 
source file header.
